Was erkennt sie jetzt still
People an die Lobby Wedding?
All right, so it looks like the
lobby is empty.
So everyone who wants to to be
there from the beginning, it's
there.
So they come everyone to our
DORU in autumn 23 last DORU of
the year, and I hope you'll feel
comfortable.
Sit in some meeting rooms
together, or maybe alone in
front of the computer, but
hopefully everyone enjoys our
DORU.
And as usual, I would like to
start with our anniversaries and
new employees worldwide.
And we have quite some today.
So overall what I counted it 27
anniversaries.
We we are going to celebrate
here in the short time frame and
it all starts with five years.
So happy anniversary to Andreas
Sybille.
Thomas, Amira.
Leopold, Michael Tim.
Uta Vergine Timothy Georgi.
You tell me.
Our sellers and robot for five
years with being, we talk
together and thanks for your
great work and for many, many
years altogether so seemed five
years ago, we hired quite a lot
of people and hope you're still
all happy being with docuware as
we are happy that you are here.
So thanks again for five years.
Umm altogether this I think 70
years, right?
Nice.
So then we have 10 years with
docu gram.
So it's Daniel.
It's Wolfgang, Christopher,
Mauricio and Justin.
So congratulations for 10 full
years with Docuware and thanks
for your great work and also
must say for 10 more years,
hopefully minimum.
Congratulations and all
together.
You are here for 50 years, which
is nice.
So all the applause and hearts
are for you.
And you have 15 years, 15 years
anniversary.
You know, there are five people
who can see the bastion downed.
Use afina status Slav and
Nicole, so congratulations for
15 grade years with Docuware was
a great great time.
Uh and time is running fast and
hope also here.
Yeah, 15 more years.
Yeah.
Thank you.
And Michael, sorry to interrupt
you.
Great.
Thank you also to you for 15
great years.
You're just deleted your name
here, but we don't wanna forget
Yes.
you.
So you are also with 15 years
anniversary.
Thank you for being with us for
15 years.
And as you said before, also for
another 15 years.
Thank you, Max.
Yeah, I deleted myself for
purpose because I didn't want to
congratulate myself.
OK.
Thanks very much.
Great.
Umm, but we have some more this
time.
So if you calculate here, it's
not yet 27.
So does it 20 years anniversary
and congratulation goes to us to
Ralph.
Umm.
In the development team, so
congratulations, 20 years
started the best broke and now
with the DOCUWARE.
Very great.
Umm and hope also for many, many
more years.
Ralph, in the development.
Thank you very much.
And finally, we have another 50
years.
I mean, there are two people
together.
Ohh 50 years so it's Stefan and
Carmen.
Big congratulations to 25 years
each great, great long time with
with docuware great achievements
and really hope for many more
years.
Also, for Stefan and Carmen,
it's really nice to have you
altogether and especially also
since 25 years in the company.
And thanks again for all the
others which I just mentioned
today.
Michael, I calculated this is
overall 265 years of
anniversary.
So it's a big, big applause
again for all the ones which are
with us and have their
anniversary today.
He's very your blouse.
Isn't it great?
Huh.
25 years.
It's really great just.
Alright.
And we have also new employees.
And.
Unfortunately, starting with
zero years, we talk about, but
you see you can.
You can stay long time with the
company.
And I would like to welcome you
and especially going through the
departments and with corporate
services or newly named also
named Corporate.
IT is Marcos.
Welcome to you then client
experience management.
Bhavna, welcome to you.
And in the people and culture
and department, we welcome
Yasmin and Paula.
Umm, some more people in
engineering, something going on
there.
So Ankita, let's say Barbara,
Kai, Stefan in Martin.
So welcome to all of you in
especially to talk over and for
a great onboarding and great
success over the time.
Then in sales, we would like to
become dinner.
Marco Incenso, Incenso for sure.
And Frank, in product
management, let's welcome
Gabrielle and Quilliam and
support.
We would like to welcome
Sebastian and in preconfigured
solutions, Francois Tassy, you
already also run yesterday with
us in the Gathering city run.
So welcome to all of you.
Have a great time.
They talk over and much success.
Especially we also have some new
apprentices, so all of them
started as IT specialist for
system integration here in
September.
So we have in the IT corporate
service department, we have
Pavlos and we have Nico.
So welcome.
And we have quite a lot also on
support department.
Cecile, we have Raphael, Blendi.
Bastian Gabriel and Nikola.
So welcome to all of you and
have a great apprenticeship at
Docuware.
You also would like to welcome
to new colleagues in Sofia, so
one, there are both in the
development.
One is Dimitar and it's better
on the other colleague and
retrieval team and Dimitrov.
So welcome very much to talk
about and dissolve your team and
we have a new colleague in
Americas.
Ohh.
In the sales department and its
Greg, so they come, Greg also
from all of us here in the
Americas.
So these were quite a lot of new
employees as well.
So but yes, you have seen
there's a chance for many, many
years.
We talked about in hope in
minimum five years, to have all
of you here on the list for the
five years.
So thanks very much and it is, I
would like and to have one other
topic which I would like to
mention.
When introduce and before I hand
over to find mates and the other
topic is our Gallup employee
survey.
So at this one I would like to
introduce, as you mentioned it
will remember we did the top top
bar.
So we started 2019 visit survey
and also did one in 21.
And then finally, we'll seemed
also diabat in in 2022.
So this was a really great
achievement.
There were many of you
participating, which was really
great and we received a lot of
helpful information, feedback
and also initiates afterwards.
A lot of initiatives and
implemented the various changes.
So Galab is is similar, let's
say survey in scientific based
survey and why do we change it
from top job to Gallup.
So first of all, you received
feedback also from the yes, did
particularly there top job is
not known.
So this is top.
Top is more chill, let's say
German based.
Umm.
Yeah.
So they and we would like to
address also the needs of the
American market in the unerring,
arican colleagues in the better
way.
On the others have, on the other
hand, then also.
Rico Umm can support us with the
Gallop survey and also we can
leverage the potential they have
and they have some experience
already over the years with this
internal survey.
And so we decided to switch from
top shop to gallop this time.
So we using a different kind of
framework, but more or less I
think the the way of questions,
the way of feedback we hope to
get will be the same.
So it will be similar way.
So that's why we would like to
conduct this some, it's also to
get your feedback to get you
insights, to get also again some
hints for improvements, but also
knowing things which are working
already nicely.
So the survey will be open from
November 27th to December 8th
this year and we really hope for
really high participation from
your side.
So every voice, every feedback
counts.
And that's I would like really
to ask you to participate.
You will get additional
information before so that you
can not miss it.
To you will not miss it and
things already now for
participating.
And with this, I would like hand
to hand over to Benedict for
financial numbers.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Thank you very much, Michael and
welcome from my side.
I'm Benedict, VP of finance,
people and culture and corporate
IT.
We and I would like to give you
an update on our financials and
let me quickly grab the pointer
so that you can, uh, easier.
Follow me here on that busy
slide.
So in the first six months of
the year, we could continue our
success story of the last years
and the grow the business by
20%.
Umm, which is a great
achievement and as you can see
this was especially supported by
our strong cloud growth and and
also a very nice license growth
for the on premise business.
You will later on see in Max
presentation that actually we
had a little bit, we struggled a
little bit wrong.
The number of customers and but
the on premise systems systems
get bigger and our customer base
cloud customer base continues to
grow extension or to buy
extensions, additional storage,
additional users and we also
were able to keep up the renewal
rate at a very high level.
And so that altogether helped us
to to grow the business by 19%
compared to the last fiscal
year.
You can also see that we
struggled a little bit with the
professional service revenues
and this is due to the fact that
we no longer have for this
migration projects running and
also we go build up its own
capacity in some areas and that
is why I professional service
revenue was a bit weaker at the
moment.
But overall a very strong first
half of the of the year.
That also results in a very nice
bonus update, and so you can see
it was our target to grow the
revenues from 43.8 million to
51.8 million.
We actually achieved revenues of
52.2 million, which means that
we have a target achievement of
104%, which results in an
current forecast of and bonus
per employee for the first half
of the year of 2085 tools and as
usual, a quick recap on on the
bonus rules and the bonus is a
cross salary and for all
employees who have no other
bonus scheme and you are not
eligible for the bonus in the
first six months of your
employment and you need to be in
an unlimited employment
agreement by the end of the year
when the bonus is is paid out.
And so this is an update on the
financials and on the bonus.
And today I also want to give
you a quick update on our new
benefits.
And we always try to listen to
the needs of all of you, of our
employees and very carefully.
And I'm very happy that we just
recently introduced 2 new
benefits and the one is the
mobility and health allowance
and we grow very fast and we are
now a team of over 600
documentarians and so not
everybody has the exact same
needs and but we believe that
mobility and health is important
to to everybody and especially
with the rising costs, we wanna
make sure that coming to the
office then and working out
after a busy day at your desk is
available to everybody of you.
And so that's why we are very
happy to introduce that new
benefits starting in in November
and in addition to that, I'm
also very happy to give an
update on the new work abroad
and work from another state
policy after the pandemic the.
Uh work environment is a
different one.
As you all know, it's a hybrid
one and it's still very
important to meet in person and
to get together in your office
for in person meetings and but
at the other side it's also very
nice to work from a different
country or different state for a
couple of days.
And that is why I'm very happy
that we can introduce those two
new policies and the uh, EMEA
colleagues are now able to work
up to 30 days from a different
country.
And the US colleagues are able
to work up to 30 days from
another state and then you maybe
believe it or you don't believe
it, but the regulations around
that topic are way more
difficult than the actual act of
grabbing your PC and hitting the
road.
And so I'm very happy and we
worked very hard to get those
policies updated and in place
for you.
Umm, so I'm very happy that we
have those new policies
available for you.
And with this, I hand over to
Max for a more detailed update
on sales.
Yeah.
Thank you, Benedict.
Hello again from my side I give
you an update on our say it's
numbers.
And and yet you know you can
read here quota.
So just to remember everyone
quota is not real revenue, this
is an artificial number and this
means we count all new and
extension business for cloud
with a 3 year contract value and
on premise with a one year
contract value.
So in the first six months of
this fiscal year, we could
extend our new business by 14%
compared to last year.
Or we could get 4.1 million
quota more in than compared to
last year.
Where did it come from?
So here we divide our channel
into record and non record
channel record channel means
record direct and partner who
orders through Nico and here we
could achieve an even higher
growth of 16% and 1.2 million
more.
But overall, our expectation for
Rico was higher.
So Rico only achieved 76% of
what we have planned for them or
minus 2.9 million and our non
Ricoh channel inclusive our
direct business could grow by
13%, which means 2.8 million
more than in the last six months
of last year.
We achieved 2% above our budget,
so we even planned with less
crowds in our non record
channel, which overall leads to
this 14% water growth of 4.1
million and on 28% of this new
business came from Rico and 72%
came from non Ricoh channels.
And that's also somehow the same
for the last.
For the last year, so even as
RECO is growing at a higher pace
at our non Ricoh channel, still
it's only around 30%.
So when we look at a world quota
by type, which product did draws
overall again you see here the
14% growth.
Our cloud business grew by 6%
only, that's compared at a
comparable low growth for cloud
in the last quarters.
Our cloud extension business was
the best seller and we could
grow by 43% compared to last
year.
And you can see it grew from 6.5
million to 9.5 million.
So that's a really outstanding
what's very surprising here is
that also in the first six
months of this fiscal year, our
on premise business could grow
by 13%.
So from 5,000,000 to 5.6
million.
So that's the third biggest
bucket and our on premise
extension business date somewhat
flat.
It's achieved 98% of our
extension business of the first
six months of last year.
So when we compare the US, which
means not necessary Docker
cooperation but our all our
business in North and South
America compared to EMIR or
everything outside the United
States, then we see that we have
slightly differences.
Our new business in in North and
South America that decreased by
2% and here we have even for
cloud business with decreased by
5%.
The extension business still
grew by 22%.
They on premise business the new
on premise business decreased
heavily.
So we only achieved 68% and it's
only 645,000 and in the first
six months and the on premise
extension also decreased by 15%,
whereas outside the United
States, we could grow by 21%,
cloud by 11%, cloud extension by
54% and exciting on premise
business by 23%.
And on even on premise,
extension could grow by 2%,
whereas I also have to say that
in the US quota this is that RSD
and partner business where is in
the EMEA quota.
We also have the inside sales
direct and account management
business and here we had a
fantastic first six months and
could grow by roughly 50%.
So that's really an outstanding
result here.
When we look at the sold
systems.
Then you can see that, uh, also,
we had a gross of 14% in our uh,
absolute numbers.
The number of new customers went
back a little bit.
And the nice thing is that.
I'm a Cloud 15 is still our
biggest bucket, umm.
And the bad thing is the Cloud
100 went back and now Cloud 100
also grew by 14 by 4 compared to
10 and and cloud 40 state very
much the same on our on premise
business.
You can see that even when we
could grow our on premise
business in numbers, which means
then the systems when bigger
because at the number of
customers went back.
So professional service went
from 163 to 143 uh business
server does not make any
difference from 20 to 10 and
enterprise server went from 15
to 12.
So we sold absolute less new on
premise system even when the on
premise business went up.
I the new business that shows
that we basically sold bigger
systems than the years before.
Here's some examples.
So, folks wagon was the biggest
deal in the last quarter with an
outstanding list price of
£356,000, followed by another
automobile dealer from Toshiba
in the US, followed by real
estate and rental and leasing
company to value a direct
project from Juan.
Very nice.
With twenty €25,000 list price
followed again by a a
construction company in Germany
and Kahl in Bistum around that,
that's an unbelievable extension
from a religious and grant
market making organization,
followed by next.
This is also a machinery
manufacturing followed by Isco,
auto machinery and equipment and
supplies merchants, followed by
higher education sunk.
Ambrose University in the US,
followed by Renaissance
administration.
A grantmaking and giving service
and then last but not least, a
pharmaceutical and medicine
manufacturing also in the US,
but Nice project from from
England and Germany and Spain
and United States.
So very nice project.
Then we have something to
celebrate.
And here I have to save the
sales guys got the award handed
over, but obviously that's a a
reward in the recognition of the
of teamwork.
So the whole company is
responsible for this and we all
win together and and therefore
not only congratulations to the
sales guys, but congratulations
to all docu variants and also an
obviously a big saying to our
teams in France and in Spain for
the hard work in the market.
So in France, Tokyo was awarded
the best DMS tool 2023-2024 by
Data Master Lab and independent
organization in France.
And this award was presented to
our colleagues during last
week's or no solution and and
DMS and and software event.
So in Spain, Docuware could win
the European technology and
Innovation award and and
technology and innovation of
what I guess caused much more to
our engineering department than
to our sales department.
But the sales guys had the fun.
As what you can see here, to get
the award handed over.
And also very nice to celebrate.
Now in Spain we have 1000 cloud
customers, 1000 paying cloud
customers and obviously so
that's a very nice achievement
and believe it or not, our 1000
paying cloud customers is a
soccer club also sooner.
So congratulations for 1000
active Cloud customers in Spain.
And with this, I would hand over
to Michael.
Thanks Max.
Uh.
Hi everyone I'm new to this to
this board and happy to give you
a short update on what's
happening behind the scenes at
Docuscan.
Just taking over.
Sorry for that.
So as we are the latest member
of the Docuware family, I'm
happy to give you just a short
behind the scenes look of what's
what's going on since the
acquisition in June.
So actually our numbers are very
strong.
It's not that surprising,
despite the fact that we don't
do any active sales anymore.
Our revenues have actually
increased, so that's a great
achievement of the team behind
the scenes and umm yeah, the
first or second or or actually
after the 35 years that we've
attended another great
announcement that I'm happy to
make now is that as many of you
might know, we have been
developing a lot of docu scan
products for quite some time
which are quite popular, popular
with some of the document
partners.
And we're happy to announce that
some of these products will
actually make it to the
pricelist by January.
I'll get into more detail just
after the next point, which is
one of my personal biggest
achievements that we've made is
that we are now finally
onboarded into the corporate
docuware teams and Microsoft
Environment.
So I don't have to use multiple
calendars anymore and can
participate in teams calls and
everything.
So that's a great thing.
And as one of the IT was a big
team effort together with the IT
guys.
Thanks again for that one night
shift that we have spent
together.
Right.
Regarding the docu scan product,
just to give you a short update
of what to expect.
So basically we're talking about
two products, one of which is
docu scans storage robot which
will be available from January
on on the price list to
worldwide to any docuware
customer through the existing
partner and direct sales
channel.
It will be rebranded to Docuware
storage robots, and I'll give a
few updates later on the year in
the specific department.
So we're currently just using
the laser pointer, starting with
the QB tomorrow.
I think we have a slot short
slot to give a brief update for
the sales team on what to
expect.
We're planning a webinar in
November for every one of you
just now listening to just get
an idea of what these products
and what they look like and what
they're targeted at.
And finally, the big launch is
planned for January in 2024,
with the modules being generally
available by then and hopefully
being onboarded by all the teams
until then.
Now and then there's much to
follow.
As you can see, but I want I
don't want to give too much
insight right now.
I want to keep the excitement
high, so that's it from my side
handing over to John.
Thank you, Michael.
It's inspiring to see Doctor
Docky scans continue success and
the integration into Docuware
family.
It's also excellent Michael to
have you in our management round
and I have found our discussions
around artificial intelligence
and valuable to shaping our
directions on this important
topic today.
I'm very happy to be able to
give all of you an update on our
company strategy around
artificial intelligence.
Last April, I had the pleasure
to share with you some of the
outcomes of the AI research
project, and I gave some
indication that we would
continue with our journey of
embracing artificial
intelligence.
At the end of June, we had the
senior management team all get
together in Federal Christian
Vesterheim for corporate
Strategy workshop.
At this workshop, we made some
decisions about how we would
proceed.
We made the decision to split
this topic into 3 core parts.
Prompting strategy is all about
our product roadmap and the
features will bring to market in
the near and midterm.
Markus and Rene as VP's for
R&D and product management,
will be responsible for this
area.
Operational strategy is all
about how we use AI and AI tools
in our everyday work.
For this we made a brand new
hoshin kanri initiative that
will start in fiscal year 24.
I will eat this initiative and
I'll talk some more about that
on my next slides.
Lastly, we believe AI is an
evolving topic that will have a
profound impact on the way that
all businesses operate in the
future.
Therefore, we need to be very
forward thinking about the way
AI shapes are the future and how
we leverage our position to
address these changes.
Michael Bochmann will take the
responsibility to help us form a
long term AI vision and
innovation strategy.
We'll continue.
We will combine these efforts
together and share our
advancements on all three areas
to create synergistic effects.
Michael Bochmann will lead this
effort and will be the owner of
Docuware's overall AI strategy.
I see huge potential in
artificial intelligence as a
tool that makes our work easier,
which helps us produce better
quality results and can help us
improve our efficiency.
Of course, AI, like any other
tool, must be used responsibly
and we should pay special
attention to our values of
diamond, dynamism, passion.
But most important decency we
are and will always be a company
filled by people.
Reflecting this, we will create
a new team at Docuware called
the AI process team.
What will the AI process team
do?
The AI process team will have
many responsibilities.
First and foremost, the team
will help all docu warians learn
more about the capabilities of
AI tools in small workshops.
We'll guide you through the
effective ways to leverage AI in
your everyday work.
Secondly, we'll ensure that AI
is used in a way that reflects
our values as a company, and
we'll stay ahead of the curve on
the complex future of new
regulations related to this
technology.
3rd We'll act as consultants to
help address specific use cases
and processes within teams where
there's a potential to leverage
AI technologies.
And finally, we'll also work as
a mini development team to
bridge the gap between what is
possible using out of the box
tools and where integration or
customization is needed.
I am more eager than anyone to
start this initiative, but we
have a few steps to complete
before we're able to interact
with many of you.
We're still filling our open
positions.
Then we have a lot to do as a
brand new team and we need to
set our team charter, define our
work management systems and
create project plans.
We want to start with GPT
training as soon as possible, so
we'll focus on developing our
curriculum and later this fiscal
year, you'll start to see
invitations to join our
workshops.
Thanks for listening about our
AI initiative.
If you have any questions,
please don't hesitate to contact
me via teams and if you're super
interested in this topic, we
have a little teams channel
where we discuss AI topics and
anyone is welcome to join.
Just send me a note in teams and
I'll send you an invite.
I think I get to hand over to
frabrizio now.
We will talk about another
really important topic, process
management.
Thank you very much, Sean also
for the exciting update and I'm
looking forward to collaborating
with you a IT department on
improving processes.
So I want to give you all the
short update on our process
efficiency initiative, which we
started in the beginning of the
year with the goal and this is
just a reminder to optimize our
business processes and establish
an organization structure that
helps us all to continuously
improve efficiency and basically
be prepared for the never
changing, always changing
business requirements that we
are facing.
And of course, you can't just
start and pick up process and
make it more efficient.
And there are more important
things we need to keep in mind
before we're getting started
with that.
And the first thing is I'm
transparency.
So our first big goal was to set
up an environment that allows
everyone within the organization
to know and to understand the
docuware process landscape.
There are a lot of people who
are working within their
departments.
They know their own process is
very well.
They may even know the processes
of some other departments that
they are working closely with,
but there is still a huge gap
when it comes to knowing like
how does it all play together
and in our opinion it's very
important that this big picture
is available to everyone.
Umm.
And secondly, it should be
available as with all
information around processes,
policies and guidelines in a in
a way that it's easy to consume
and also enjoyable, and I know.
Enjoyable.
Yeah, searching for information.
This is probably a word that is
the least associated with,
because we all know you look for
something.
Maybe you want to book a new you
want to book a travel to to
visit clients location, or you
want to visit the Beacon Office
in the US or vice versa.
And you know, there's been a
guideline around travel and
expense and handling etcetera
and you know, OK, there might be
an SOP.
So you look in docuware, you
might go to confluence, you
might remember, hey, there was a
teams post about that and this
can be frustrating and this is
what I mean by enjoyable.
We want to make sure that this
information is well prepared and
accessible in a specific place
where everyone knows where they
can look for it and find their
information as fast as possible.
Umm.
Also another sorry, I moved too
far.
Another very important point is
inclusiveness.
When we are talking about
processes, we are often talking
in smaller groups, discussing
ideas, preparing a lot, making
sure that the process is maybe
fit a certain organizational
goal, maybe fit a certain
stakeholder groups goal.
But we sometimes and I'm guilty
of that as well.
I'm coming from the CRM and
dynamic side.
We sometimes forget that there
are way more people who need to
be involved.
Umm.
And we want to make sure that
how we are working with
processes in the future, umm,
makes sure that everyone that
needs to be considered is
considered that everyone is hurt
and everyone can raise their
ideas and concerns when it comes
to introducing new processes or
changing existing ones.
And only if we do all these
three things, we can actually
make processes more efficient,
because you can have the most
efficient process by numbers.
If it doesn't fit everyone's
needs, and it if it doesn't help
you all achieve your goals, then
that efficiency is umm yeah, a
mathematical or statistical lie.
But not not always the case.
And maybe you remember in the
beginning of the year, we sent
out a survey to everyone and I
don't want to bore you with
diagrams now, but one very and
interesting insight was that we
had over half of the
participants stated that while
they think we have a, an overall
good process landscape, they
need to regularly deviate from
their processes in order to even
achieve their goals.
And to me, this made it obvious
that we are not always keeping
especially the inclusiveness.
Part in mind.
So these are the four pillars on
which we want to.
Yeah.
Proceed and on which we wanted
to make sure that we can
actually work on improving
processes.
And the first thing that was to
do was building a foundation.
So basically we need to collect
the information we need to make
sure that we even know about our
process landscape ourselves.
And for that, we started doing
process interviews.
So we went through a lot of
departments to a lot of
individuals and talked to them.
Ask them what are your
processes?
What are you working on?
I'm and how and why are you
doing that?
Not very detailed, but to get an
overview of what is the
department doing, what is the
team doing?
Obviously, all this information
from a lot of interviews need to
be reviewed.
We had a lot of feedback loops
and eventually ended up with a
cataloged version of all that
collected information, and just
to give you some numbers, we had
the pleasure of talking with 40
individuals from all across the
organization, and at that point,
thank you to everyone involved.
I know that was a lot of time
spent and this is important to
the whole organization to know
that it's not just process
management involved, but this is
something that everyone across
the organization, UMM needs to
participate and did participate
over the course of the last
months and this was very
valuable, conducted 100
interview sessions.
As you can imagine, you need to
prepare.
You need to.
Uh, yeah.
Collect your your notes
afterwards, so this is a lot of
time spent and overall we ended
up with a bit over 600
individual processes knowing
today already that we very
likely missed some and then we
need the place to store all
that.
So we did have a look in a lot
of different process management
platforms and they were all
shaped differently.
We looked at more simpler tools
like the document process
planner for visualizing the
processes.
We looked at very, very complex
business suits.
We also considered things like X
and Ivy for example.
Umm.
And with the help of other
colleagues, though, we talked
with quality management.
We talked with IT security, we
talked with corporate IT in
general because there's also
some needs on on their end.
We finally ended up with a nice
which is a chairman mate small
business process management
platform.
It's Cloud hosted runs in a
small data center in Germany.
So we had a bit of an easier go
with compliance and IT security
on that end, umm, and this shall
be the one place for our process
documentation.
So we will do a process map
here.
So an overview over the whole
process landscape you will find
process models in that we even
will document process roles and
responsibilities and likely a
lot more because in is is very
modular.
So we will right now start with
the process management modules,
but there's also modules for
risk management, audit
management, idea management.
So we chose a tool that, if it
suits our needs and if you're
happy using it, and we even have
the chance to use it for other
administrative slash governance
use cases.
Yeah, as I said and I won't go
into detail, there will be
dedicated sessions.
Everyone will be invited, but we
will start from a very high
level process landscape overview
where you will just see like
what our core processes, what
our supporting processes and who
is responsible for these and you
can navigate all the way down to
very, very detailed process
diagrams for the processes that
are more complex.
Umm of course this requires
still some participation of
process owners and other people
involved, so our current
timeline is that and this is
already started, we are
onboarding process owners and
the people who we interviewed so
that they are the first to
actually get into the tool and
that they can review what we put
in it based on the interviews
and that they also have a chance
to start filling it with process
diagrams because we know there
are some process diagrams
available already and this is as
I said already started.
So we have engineering,
professional services and
support already in the system
and we are happily awaiting the
first feedback.
We will make some adjustments to
the whole configuration based on
that.
So this is also real life user
test that we are doing and then
we are planning to start
communication around how
everyone can be onboarded or
will be onboarded including
trainings and training materials
and information published in
confluence in the second half of
November due to the amount of
people.
It's Benedikt mentioned in the
beginning of the year more than
600 docu variants.
Right now, we will likely do it
in two or three batches, but in
the end everyone in the
organization will have access to
this tool.
So everyone will have access to
our process documentation and
then December and onwards, we
will be working with process
owners and with process
participants on making sure that
the documentation reflects and
continues to reflect the actual
doings.
And we will be improving
configurations in the system and
then this would be what we
consider our foundation then
because then everyone is able to
have a look, have a glance at
our process landscape and then
I'm of course I'm after the
foundation, we need to do a bit
more.
So on the one hand, and this
covers the aspects of
transparency and easiness and
the enjoyable part, umm, we have
working on a concept for
integrating information across
systems.
As I mentioned earlier, it's
very difficult to find
information and you have SOP's.
'S in docuware we have policies
and conference etcetera and so
we are working on a concept that
makes that easier, maybe even
helps us to get rid of some of
the very big and complex as OPS.
Umm.
And then we are introducing a
change management to help with
the coordination of process
change projects in the future.
And I want to end with.
Yeah, saying that we are here to
assist you in improving your
processes.
Umm, we want to make sure you
can then focus on what's
important to reach your own
goals.
So if you have any concerns
around your processes, if you
have anything where you know you
want to conduct a bigger change
around a process or you want to
introduce something new and
exciting and you need help with
that, please reach out to us.
Let us know when we are happy to
help, and with that I am handing
over to Marcus.
Thank you everyone.
Yeah.
Thanks for Riccio.
Umm, looking forward to
collaborate with you on this one
as we are part of some of the
core processes and have a lot of
processes and also have the
problem that not everyone
understands every process.
So I'm looking forward to
collaborate.
Yeah.
Hi from my side my name is
Marcus.
I'm responsible for the
engineering team and I guess you
all know this, but in advance,
often of a DORU you can submit
questions and that's a pretty
new format from earlier this
year.
And this time we got one
question from a colleague and
that falls into the engineering
space, I would say.
So I'll try my best to to answer
this question from a colleague.
You asked.
Well, I will not treat the full
question, but basically the
question is about the quality of
our cloud and and and the cloud
doesn't have so many limits and
we regularly have the situation
that a partner or a customer is
really heavily using the system,
maybe reaching here and their
performance limit and and this
might here and there spill over
to other customers.
And the question was, will we
prioritize this problem?
And yeah, first of all, things a
lot for this question because
what's very relevant, I mean our
product is coming from the on
premise times when we did not
care about limits, right?
So we sought a as a software and
if your server is too slow and
you have too many processes
running on it, it's your
responsibility as a partner as a
customer to do this where in the
cloud when the cloud since a few
years now this is our job and
that's why it's a very relevant
question.
And this can only work if there
are certain limits and that's
why already today there are some
limit.
They're not very well described,
but they are there.
So there are some technical
limits defined in the DOCUWARE
platform.
For example, some heavily
incoming requests are throttled
already today, so when you cut
fire, too many of them, then
you're just blocked it just
blocked.
And also I mean if you produce a
lot of load inside the system,
for example by running auto
index jobs or uh delusion jobs
or a lot of the things which
which cause a lot of load, then
at least we are fair.
Meanwhile, it's it's still a lot
of load which is produced, but
at least we're fair.
It was not like this in the
beginning of the cloud, but
meanwhile I think this is a very
established pattern that we have
a so called fair task scheduler.
So that means fair across
customers that means it's not
the fastest one, not the fastest
scheduler that you can have, but
at least it's fair in this
regard.
That if you are producing too
much load then you have tasks
are delayed, not the ones of all
the others.
So that's already at least the
better situation than in the
beginning.
But of course, that's not in the
end.
That's not where we need to be.
Well, that's why a few measures
which are currently in place is,
first of all that we are
finishing another technical
infrastructure, so called
Central Gateway and this helps
us also in the future to much
easier throttle some more
incoming requests which produce
load.
That's one thing.
The second is we're actually
went the extra mile and
collected a lot of.
Yeah, possible.
And potential limits that we
should have in the product and
product and engineering and
we're discussing this at the
moment, it's even up to the
portfolio meeting at the moment
and we will shortly later this
year will announce and partially
also enforce in the product some
more limits that we don't have
today.
So that's active work in
progress and also what's
happening at the moment is that
we are, yeah, analyzing a bit
more carefully than in the past
some excessive load per customer
and the profiles that such
customers have trying to find
some common patterns.
Again to improve stability, but
also to, yeah, save costs just
to be open if someone is really
executing too many too many
services, too many or too index
jobs, too many, I don't know,
creates a copy of the of the Big
five comment in a request
container twice a day.
This is just all confusing a lot
of load and at the moment
they're I need to know limits
and that's why we're trying to
find such pattern and also again
here to take take care of
better, better solutions from a
cost and from a performance
perspective.
That's high level.
I don't know who asked this
question, so if you want to know
more details please don't
hesitate and also get back to me
for example or one of my
colleagues and we'll happily
discuss further with you other
than that, that was my attempt
to yeah, work in this question
and I hand over to Mikey.
Thank you Marcus for answering
this time question.
Umm.
And I would like uh to take the
opportunity to have a short look
on the next quarter or a little
outlook and.
Basically, there are some
special topics that would like
to remind you, also give you the
information.
So the first is that there is a
corporate strategy meeting of
the of the DUP circle and
extended GPU circle on November
14th, and sixteenths will be
held in Regensburg here in
Germany.
Umm.
Then also we will work on
finalize and approving and
communicating the strategic
product code net also it was
intended to give some more
updates around these days, but
still we would like to go first
also to the study meeting and
then no also internally
communicate and discuss a little
bit further and then have a
separate meeting for this.
I'm still and the next time and
also you see what Markus just
answered, even if you're
shifting the gears to different,
let's say things we are
producing at the moment and
working on, but the cloud also
still is something in the
background which continuously
needs some effort.
But overall, the the teacher got
with will contain completely new
things, so then and gallop
survey I already mentioned this.
So we really ask for your
participation, high
participation and feedback.
In November, then also we will
have an easel 9001 audit.
So we had already did 27,000 of
or not all one audit.
And you will have now the first
time a real easy to 9001 audit,
which is nicely prepared now
hopefully and you will make it
then we already in the budget
planning for next year so more
or less everyone of you will be
involved in it.
Then also marketing starts
preparing the Docker world and
also some some of you will be
here and there involved in the
whole process.
And then also we prepare new ADP
program.
And this final discussions and
roll out will be, let's say
taking some efforts and some
initiatives here and not not to
forget that it's your end.
So the calendar year end and
that means also there's a a
business year end for many of
the companies and some high
that's expectations also from
our side on the on the sales
side and the last thing.
Uh, because it's the last door
before year ends and it includes
Christmas and also festivities.
So please enjoy here your year
end with the with your families
and friends and all that you
wanted to make this message.
Now and with this, I hope we all
start strong in the next
quarter.
So with the power of document,
may the force of docuware be
with you and with this nice
pictures from from this year.
So they left.
Many of you know this was the
field trip here in the unique
this time and on the right side
you see the nice opening in
Beacon.
So with these pictures I would
learn like to hand over to the
nemetschek part and for all the
ones which are not not listening
to this parts or things and see
you soon.
So but for the others, and
especially also for the Sofia
people, I would like to hand
over now to Luba who is doing it
in the name of George.
And the first time on stage,
very come, Luba.
And thanks to the others joined.
Thank you.
So hello everyone.
For those who don't know me, my
name is Luba Filipova and I'm
responsible for the operations
in Nemetschek.
As Michael said, George,
currently flying somewhere over
Europe.
So today I'm presenting Nemchev
Q3 results, so I'm starting with
the financial information.
As you can see by the end of Q
trim ohm of 2023 and let me
check Bulgaria revenue is close
to 70.7 million year room
compared to the same period of
2022.
We have a traditional revenue
growth of 31%.
Uh.
Quite naturally.
Uh, given the revenue growth, we
have a similar expense growth of
39% compared to the same period
of 2022, which amounts to €15.7
million.
Umm in Jim.
But just just one thing, I I
still seeing the old slides and
I because I still have control.
I guess I just clicked forward,
but could you take control?
Ah, I'm clicking and they are
changing with me just a second.
But I don't know.
Maybe it was only for me, but.
Now.
Yeah.
Now it's better.
Thank you.
Now it's better. Sorry.
So now they're changing, right?
Yeah.
Yes. Yeah.
Yes.
They don't know.
Yeah.
Thank you.
So in terms of our ongoing work
towards employer branding, now
this is the second tier in a row
that we are hosting the bytes
events.
The bytes is an event where our
experts share their expertise on
various topics.
Among the IT community.
Ohh outside the company.
As you can see on the picture,
one of our very important
speakers is Stanimir Stanimir.
This year we have planned two
events, one in Varna with more
than 100 participated.
Uh this week we have in Sofia
and actually on uh, 23rd of
November we will have the bytes
in Plovdiv.
Not in Sofia, where it does our
third office in Bulgaria.
Umm, there is value we get from
this the events this this year
is already visible ohm, namely
several hires who have applied
in the company after attending
this event.
Actually, we haven't planned to
to have such results, but it
happens and we are very happy
with this.
And in this respect for Q3, you
can see that we have 26 new
colleagues of those 10 juniors
and 16 experts.
Uh.
With them, the total number of
newly hired colleagues in them?
A check Bulgaria in 2023 is 18,
some of whom, of course, are
already part of Docuware team.
E After the success of the first
rise bootcamp and hiring 100% of
the people, we are now working
on the 2nd edition of Rice,
which will be held in March
2024.
The book is very strategical, uh
for the company and we have
drawn our conclusions from the
first editions and now we are
looking for additional benefits
in addition to upgrading and
adapting the program, we are now
building a comprehensive
mentoring program and the main
goal of this program is to
involve people with all kinds of
expertise in the company.
Soon to start their journey as
mentors in safe environment and
others to build their knowledge.
Ohh forward and the worst flight
from my side is to share uh some
very nice events that we had
during the past month.
In September, we had our big
company team building.
Ohm in the mountain where we
altogether renovated.
Very good.
Recreating career in Real
Mountain near Borovetz some of
you maybe know it.
Ohh, we had a very interesting
discussion with very popular
Bulgarian Video creator and
storyteller Martin Grahovski in
August.
We had jaadu tasting and thanks
to Nikki Marino from Docuware
team, we are caniza the
celebration of the programmers
day.
That's from my side.
Thank you.
Thank you, luba.
Very nice.
Thank you for the update.
They take control again and go
back to your numbers.
2nd.
So because I think most of them
haven't seen them because but
Yeah.
Ah, sorry.
wanted to reshow the.
So, uh there?
Yes, this is the first one with
the revenue numbers where we
have a the accumulated number up
to end of Q3 which is 70.7.
And again, this is A and that's
31% growth from the same period
Yep.
So do Yep. So.
of 2022.
And of course, the next one, the
expenses are always that we have
growth in the expenses as well
ohm they now are 15.7 ohh for
country till the end of the Q3
and the the percentage is 39
growth from 2022.
Will be higher than the
revenues.
Yeah, you.
The gross the the amount is
still positive, it's OK.
Yes, but it's still positive,
yes.
Yep.
Thank you very much Luba.
Thank you, Michael. Bye.
And thanks to all of you for
listening and thanks all to to
all the presenters today.
And yeah, have a nice evening or
nice day and US and yeah.
See you soon.
Thanks for listening.